README.md, before:

This script helps to debug distributed applications. It relies on tmux to display
each rank in a correct manner. No installation are needed except the creation of a RC file
which sets the paths and names of different variables and executables.

When the script is used, a left pane contains the gdbserver and all stdout messages.
The right part will contain all ranks with all gdb, one gdb per rank.

We note that on some machines the GNU gdb/gdbserver does not work properly when reading the symbols.
We then switch to cuda-gdb/cuda-gdbserver.

## Execution

In substance, the script creates a tmux session called debug, focuses on it if other tmux
sessions exist. If so, the user has to **detach** in order to resume.
Then the scripts creates the gdbserver, waits a few seconds and then creates
a pane per rank.

# Install
Clone the repo and move inside. No installation needed except the creation of a RC file.

### RC file
In order to setup the environment correctly, we provide a few examples for different
plateforms in the folder rc_files.

Make a copy of one of them into your $HOME, and rename it .pgdbrc as follow:
```
cp rc_files/pgdbrc_<machine_name> $HOME/.pgdbrc
```

Then update it as needed.

## Environment
We use the tmux software to display and manage the different gdb and the gdbserver.
We recommand tmux/3.1b as we are mainly using it. It does not mean it does not work
with another version.

### Some tmux commands
Tmux is using a prefix key, which is by default Ctrl-b.

* **detach** from a tmux session
  * `Ctrl-b d`
* **zoom/unzoom** in a pane
  * `Ctrl-b z`
* **move** between panes
  * `Ctrl-b arrow`
* **kill** all panes but the gdbserver pane
  * `Ctrl-b : kill-pane -a -t 0`

# Usage
The classical way of using it is by considering the following standard way of execution:
```
mpirun -n 4 ./exec_name <params_list>
```

The idea is to reuse this line and to add at the beginning the call to pgdb as follow:
```
./pgdb -p 1 -q 4 --exec ./exec_name --run mpirun -n 4 ./exec_name <params_list>
```

This command line works as follow:
* -p is the number of nodes
* -q is the number of ranks for node
* --exec is the name of the executable given to mpirun
* --run corresponds to the mpirun command line that will be executed.

## Remarks
Some remarks:
* For now, we do not parse automatically the command line, so we need to provide the name of the executable.
* The flag --run must be the last one relative to pgdb

## Additional case

Some additional arguments of pgdb can be provided. For example, we can pass 
gdb commands to all gdb instances, all at once. For that, we use the flag `--gdbaddcmd', as follow:
```
pgdb -p 2 -q 6 --gdbaddcmd "-ex 'c'" --exec ./exec_name <params_list>
```

In the example above, we request all gdb to execute `continue`.

```
pgdb -p 2 -q 6 --gdbaddcmd "-ex 'b MPI_Init' -ex 'c'" --exec ./exec_name <params_list>
```
In the example above, we put a breakpoint when MPI_Init routine is encountered and then we start the execution.
It means all 12 ranks will do it.

Commit message:

Upd README with the experimental flags

README.md, after:

This script helps to debug distributed applications. It relies on tmux to display
each rank in a correct manner. No installation are needed except the creation of a RC file
which sets the paths and names of different variables and executables.

When the script is used, a left pane contains the gdbserver and all stdout messages.
The right part will contain all ranks with all gdb, one gdb per rank.

We note that on some machines the GNU gdb/gdbserver does not work properly when reading the symbols.
We then switch to cuda-gdb/cuda-gdbserver.

## Execution

In substance, the script creates a tmux session called debug, focuses on it if other tmux
sessions exist. If so, the user has to **detach** in order to resume.
Then the scripts creates the gdbserver, waits a few seconds and then creates
a pane per rank.

# Install
Clone the repo and move inside. No installation needed except the creation of a RC file.

### RC file
In order to setup the environment correctly, we provide a few examples for different
plateforms in the folder rc_files.

Make a copy of one of them into your $HOME, and rename it .pgdbrc as follow:
```
cp rc_files/pgdbrc_<machine_name> $HOME/.pgdbrc
```

Then update it as needed.
**Remark** The `PGDB_BIN` path has to be updated.

## Environment
We use the tmux software to display and manage the different gdb and the gdbserver.
We recommand tmux/3.1b as we are mainly using it. It does not mean it does not work
with another version.

### Some tmux commands
Tmux is using a prefix key, which is by default Ctrl-b.

* **detach** from a tmux session
  * `Ctrl-b d`
* **zoom/unzoom** in a pane
  * `Ctrl-b z`
* **move** between panes
  * `Ctrl-b arrow`
* **kill** all panes but the gdbserver pane
  * `Ctrl-b : kill-pane -a -t 0`

# Usage
The classical way of using it is by considering the following standard way of execution:
```
mpirun -n 4 ./exec_name <params_list>
```

The idea is to reuse this line and to add at the beginning the call to pgdb as follow:
```
./pgdb -p 1 -q 4 --exec ./exec_name --run mpirun -n 4 ./exec_name <params_list>
```

This command line works as follow:
* -p is the number of nodes
* -q is the number of ranks per node
* --exec is the name of the executable given to mpirun
* --run corresponds to the mpirun command line that will be executed.

## Remarks
Some remarks:
* For now, we do not parse automatically the command line, so we need to provide the name of the executable.
* The flag --run must be the last one relative to pgdb

## Additional flags

### gdbaddcmd flag
Some additional arguments of pgdb can be provided. For example, we can pass 
gdb commands to all gdb instances, all at once. For that, we use the flag `--gdbaddcmd', as follow:
```
pgdb -p 2 -q 6 --gdbaddcmd "-ex 'c'" --exec ./exec_name --run mpirun -n 12 ./exec_name <params_list>
```

In the example above, we request all gdb to execute `continue`.

```
pgdb -p 3 -q 3 --gdbaddcmd "-ex 'b MPI_Init' -ex 'c'" --exec ./exec_name --run mpirun -n 9 ./exec_name <params_list>
```
In the example above, we put a breakpoint when MPI_Init routine is encountered and then we start the execution.
It means all 9 ranks will execute the sequence of instructions.

### paging flag (**EXPERIMENTAL**)
When a large number of ranks have to be debugged, the standard display might not
be convenient. We added an experimental flag `--paging` that splits the 
nodes into groups of two nodes, displaying one group per tmux window:
```
pgdb -p 6 -q 6 --paging --exec ./exec_name --run mpirun -n 36 ./exec_name <param_list>
```

### ranks flags (**EXPERIMENTAL**)
Sometimes, we know the subset of ranks we want to debug. For that, we introduce
the flag `--ranks` followed by a list of rank_id, all separated by a comma (for now):
```
pgdb -p 4 -q 2 --ranks 0,1,7 --exec ./exec_name --run mpirun -n 8 ./exec_name <param_list>
```
